ABA text skip.

-1. Snowball Fight

Set options on 1st turn. Setting L to flee would help later. (I didn't do it)

0. Lizards: Any JP Mont gets here will not be preserved; he's only a guest!

Setup: unequip all armor for first 4 units, and MNK weapon, change to WAR, fire last 2 units)

Sell all armor, Phoenix Downs, Bandages, shields, Hard Knuckles, White Staff -> 7950 Gil

Buy Shortsword, Sweep Blade, 3 Gauntlets -> 330 Gil

Equip Shortsword and all 3 Gauntlets

1. Herb Picking: Make sure WAR can OHKO Fairy without crit. Give Mont 1 JP. Always crit if it can OHKO.

Do Dueling Sub (reward -must- be Kaiser) and Human Wanted. After Dueling Sub, pay for Thesis Hunt (if possible, reward should be Firewheel/Atmos).

Recruits must be MNK (115+ Speed) and FGT (113+). Equip Kaiser and Sweep.

2. Thesis Hunt:
Nearer THF = WAR crit + FGT fight
Left SLD = MNK AR + SLD fight
Right SLD = Marche crit + WAR crit
ARC = Thunder + MNK fight (overkill)
WHT = Thunder + SLD fight
Further THF = FGT Fight + Marche crit
Make sure no one uses abilities
Try to give Mont 1 JP here (I didn't)

Place Nubs and go to it. You will stop at Sprohm.
Pay for Cheetahs. Reward should be Firewheel and/or Atmos. RNG determined when you press A on "Missions".

Buy (up to) 3 Silver Sword - you can buy less if you got some swords from rewards - and Jack Knife.

3. Cheetahs:
Place Mont where I did to make the ARC come forward.
Ritz MUST OHKO THF on 1st turn.
Enemy MNK tends to use Air Render, but sometimes he'll just fight Ritz (who has Reflex).
BLK almost always uses magic.

Desert Peril reward must be Khukuri

Marche equip Silver/Buster Sword, Mont equip Firewheel (if you have it, otherwise flan will be 2HKO), FGT equip Atmos (if you have it, otherwise Coeurl needs extra turns)

Flee clan at Eluut (#1)

4. Desert Peril:
Make sure Antlion is faster than Marche. Flan must also be slower than Mont (though that's quite easy).
Do NOT crit Antlion, so that Mont can double kill

5. Twisted Flow:
In battle, change Mont to Thief with Black Magic, equip Jack Knife or Khukuri
Redirect 1st Roulette to one of the blue guys; the other red guy won't do anything on turn 1
Make Famfrit right in front of Marche, then surround.
Remember to maximise damage from variance.
I gained JP through Blizzard.

FGT equip Atmos (if you haven't yet), MNK change to WAR, equip Shortsword
I walked around to get recommend Fire at Cadoan
Flee clan during the obligatory "walk away from Cadoan first" (#2)

6. Antilaws:
Last chance for Mont JP
Initial NIN+HUN turns may be hard to manipulate. Throw is faster than Water Veil, and Sonic Boom should be avoided if possible. But most importantly, HUN should move to the left (towards the ILU) and not the right. This lets him be Air Rendered later.
Azoth must hit everyone, obviously. After, don't let Ezel do anything.

Shop now upgraded. Buy up to 5 Shadow Blades (I think you only need like 3), Dream Claws, 2 Gauntlets.

FGT and WAR2 equip Gauntlets, Mont equip the other knife, WAR1 change to GLD, equip Shadow Blade + Gauntlets.

7. Diamond Rain:
Don't let your guys advance too far, or the right Dragon will most likely use Ice Breath.

Marche change to FGT, equip Shadow Blade + Gauntlets
Get Estreledge
Ban Charm for Ultima - extremely important

8. Hot Awakening:
Basically just try to always attack every turn.
Marche can handle the 3 on the left on his own, your other 3 dudes take care of the rest.
Very boring fight.

WAR2 change sword, Mont change to GDT, equip Dream Claws

9. Magic Wood:
Rush or crit Marche to move him 1 space up, so he can kill the THF on turn 1
BLK almost always uses magic
SUM can be left awake, as she tends not to use magic yet
Make sure someone else is also left awake (in my case TIM) so that FGT won't be wasting his turn stuck in the back

10. Emerald Keep:
Marche must be faster than all enemies (except Babus)
1 Air Render + crit kills him; no need to Sleep

Try to get Air Blade from Pale Company
Change GLD to WAR, set GLD skills, equip Estreledge + Gauntlets, fire SLD

11. Pale Company:
Let Adra kill WAR2, then just spam Beatdown

Do Viera Wanted, equip Kotetsu, fire FGT

12. Jagd Hunt:
Try to rig Antlion to be OHKOable by WAR1; otherwise just use an extra hit from ASN
Nearly impossible to miss both hits of Double Sword
BLU immune to Sleep
NIN & ASN killed by Marche & WAR2

Set Bounty reward to STQ first
Walk around, flee clan (#3) while you're at it, wait for Viera Wanted to reappear, then do it
ASN2 equip Kotetsu, Marche equip Air Blade, Mont change to THF with Black Magic, equip Khukuri, change WAR2 to GLD, equip Shadow Blade + Gauntlets

13. The Bounty:
Rockseal the fastest units (FGT & RED)
BD + AR the PAL
Black Magic and Time Magic are hard to avoid if in range
If Marche can't OHKO TIM, get help from ASN

14. Golden Clock:
Shara must OHKO TIM
JGL almost always uses ability; Hurl seems fastest
If not using Rockseal, Ritz must disable GDT; otherwise, try to get her to hit JGL (very difficult)
ALC is immune to sleep

Flee clan (#4)

Shop upgraded. Buy up to 5 Headbands, Power Sashes and Dash Boots. (Lohengrin too, if you don't want to try for Pearl Blade/Arch Sword later) Equip them all on ASNs and WAR1. Change Marche to PAL with Fighter Tech, equip STQ, Gauntlets, Dash Boots.

15. Scouring Time:
Make sure GUN is slower than Mont
Might be able to get in more than 2 Rockseals

Follow how I kill Babus (Fight then crit from behind). Otherwise Cid will ALWAYS move from his spot.
All fruits should be OHKOable

Get Tiptaptwo

16. The Big Find:
Rockseal THFs, BD FGTs, let Marche take care of right BIS

17. Desert Patrol:
Rockseal MNK, then the DEF over the SLD (the former likes using abilities). Then you should be able to get it one more Rockseal.

18. Quiet Sands:
Kill Marche.

Let GLD die. Try to avoid Vampire abilities as much as possible. Then just spam BD.

19. Materite Now:
2 Totemas kill them all. ELM may sometimes survive.

Get Estreledge (not really)

20. Present Day:
WAR can OHKO MOG and ALC. Rockseal the other 3.
Try to get Llednar to move only 2 spaces.

Hidden Vein is the only chance to conveniently get a Type 7 reward. Masamune is arguably the most useful of the bunch.

21. Hidden Vein:
BLU has Damage > MP AND is immune to Rockseal, so best way to kill him is with his own Roulette, unfortunately. Then again, you could probably get a Kikuichimonji beforehand...
Try not to use Sleep. I had to because otherwise the MNK would've revived the BLU.

22. To Ambervale:
WAR1 is unlikely to OHKO the Antlion, so AR will probably be needed. Then just 4 Rockseals. Make sure the Lamia doesn't block the path to the Dragon.

23. Over the Hill:
Ritz and Shara immune to sleep. Ritz always uses Doublecast. Crit her off the cliff.

If you don't have >250 WAtk, you won't be doing significant damage to the final bosses.

24a. Llednar:
OHKO unlikely.

24b. Remedi:
Arrange units like I did to avoid Firestream. Then just sleep and whack away.

24c. Li-Grim:
One of the Mateuses can be baited into fighting. Then, as before, sleep and whack away. Try to plan your damage output.
